We sat there and Don Spirison, who is now my
partner, who was running cardiovascular systems
at Amnion at that time, we had to face up to the fact
that going forward, our product, we had a low
technology product, and our competitors, we felt
that there would be a technology evolution in that
market. that it would eventually go, say, from
centrifugation to separate the blood to maybe
some membrane technology. We didn't feel that our
company had the resident R&D capability to
advance that product to the next generation. So it
was looking at that, looking at our inability to
finance an acquisition after really actually
having a hard time even finding something worth
buying, We felt pretty much that maybe we should
take the bird in the hand instead of the two in the
bush. In retrospect, it was still probably the
right decision to make. Is that a typical pattern,
not the pattern of that particular company, but
the pattern of venture capital?
What I guess I'd like to know a little bit, I find
this really fascinating, one of the things I'd
like to know, I guess, is how the company itself
evaluates what it's going to do, on what basis it
makes its decisions. Because my preconceived
notion was that venture capital was sort of an
upfront thing. Once it gets its money, it's out of
it. It's not really interested in managing
companies. If we have to manage companies, we know
we're in trouble, because we know the management
that we selected is incapable. We don't want to
manage companies on a day-to-day basis. It is the
board, when you're talking about buying or
selling or doing something major, that is a board
decision, just as it's a board decision at IBM or
Mitchell Energy. And the venture capitalists
usually have fairly good representation on the
board of directors. So we are involved in that
decision. Our particular venture organization
here has been more of an active manager than most
venture organizations because We have been the
founders of many of these companies. And number
one and number two, the personalities of the three
of us partners now are more, we're more active than
passive. We don't manage where we don't want to be
managed. But when it comes to things like in that
particular case, even though Don is now my partner
in Venture Capitalist, I was very active in
identifying with Abbott Laboratories through
contacts, the product line that we were looking to
acquire. I had some contacts that provided us the
banking contacts that we looked at trying to
finance it. And it was, in fact, our relationship
with the first Boston corporation who acted as
investment bankers to Cove Laboratories. They
actually called us about our interest in whether
the company would be interested in selling. So
venture capitalists don't want to be involved
long-term in companies. They don't want to be
involved in day-to-day management. But in the
short term, in all things that are of strategic
value or matters of liquidity to their
investment, they'll take an active involvement
in it. How does the staff research, I assume the
staff research is done, to buttress these sorts of
decisions? How is that developed? And within the
venture capital company? Well, the three of us, we
virtually live and breathe in the health care
industry. We've had people, for example, my
partner's father had a heart condition about a
year ago. He's out in California. And he's in the
hospital. Michael went out there. And Michael,
for two years, Michael within our group had been
our person who was looking at investments in
interventional cardiology. He is more
knowledgeable about every type of catheter,
laser, roto-ablater to fight plaque and arteries
than probably many physicians. And he's, because
we're constantly looking for new technologies
and products, he's probably more aware of new
products than many physicians. And in that
particular case, He recommended to the
cardiologist in Southern California that they
should talk to John Simpson up in San Francisco,
who has had just gotten approval with the FDA to do,
I think, an atherectomy procedure with one of his
rotoablation devices. And so we're pretty
knowledgeable about what's going on in the
marketplace. And we're pretty knowledgeable
about values of companies. And we feel that we're
we think we're pretty qualified to make decisions
when you want, you know, to make an acquisition,
when you want to grow the company more, when you
don't think you can grow it as much as it's, you
know, to the rate of growth that you might be able to
realize now if you sold it. So we take, in some
cases, maybe even more so than management, who are
focused on their single company and less aware of
what all the other companies and what the
competitors. Yeah, we're real
industry-oriented. We go to And we go to health
care meetings and medical conferences
constantly to keep attuned to what's going on in
the marketplace. And so what you're saying, by way
of sort of summary, is that without that
expertise, this company in any way wouldn't
really be able to function the way it does. I think
so. I think the difference between if you say what
makes someone a venture capital investor versus
not being a venture capital investor in the You
know, the industry adages that we're active
versus passive, or we add value as opposed to, you
know, just being a passive investor. And how do you
add value? You add value by being involved in the
broader industry, by being able to make
decisions, bring contacts to the company that any
individual company or its management group might
not have itself. Access technology. We are
constantly getting proposals. We have contacts
at universities all across the United States. If
we're trying to build one of our own companies, we
have a company right now that's an animal
veterinary pharmaceutical company. And it has a
great product, one of the most elegant, one of the
most desirable products that will ever be on the
market, I believe. Nonetheless, it's just one
product, and if they want to build around that
product, they either have to do it themselves,
which, you know, what's the capability of one or
two scientists to add more products when there
are, you know, thousands every year trying to
develop new ones of which only a few succeed,
versus us who are constantly seeing deals and
proposals and know that so-and-so is working on
such-and-such at such-and-such university, and
we can help those companies either access other
technologies or know when not to develop one
themselves because someone else is doing it. So
were we to put this in the context of, say, a
military operation, you feed into the strategic
principles by providing key and timely
intelligence of where the world is going and what
what's going to be striking. If I could remember
that exact statement, I would use it because that
is, in essence, what we try to do. And sometimes
we're capable of doing it, sometimes we're not.
But that, in fact, is what we're trying to do. Okay.
I'll do it. About the same time that we had launched
cardiovascular systems independently and were
starting to work with the University of Texas for
the creation of LifeCell, as Dominic might have
mentioned, Dominic had been at Baylor, and he had
been interested in creating a new company.
Mitchell had been talking to Baylor for years
about having a presence out in the woodland.
Dominic had been courted by people in Vancouver,
Canada, and I think Temple University in
Philadelphia had courted him. Arnold Beckman had
courted him to move out to Irvine, California. And
some people had talked about creating an
institute of this or professorship of that. And
the bottom line out of all that was that, and I think
an important element of this process was that
Baylor agreed in many ways to support Dominic and
to support George Mitchell's vision to create the
Center for Biotechnology out here in the
Woodlands, which I do believe has helped them
attract scientists that they might not have
otherwise attracted. A good example is
Bill Benedict, who came from the Doheny Eye
Institute at the University of Southern
California, a world-class scientist. He has just
flat-out told me that he would never have come to
Baylor and come to Texas if it hadn't been for
Baylor's Center for Biotechnology in the
woodlands. And did you have any participation in
the development of that center? No, that was
really done through Mitchell and the Woodlands
Corporation, but it tied in a lot to Houston
Biotechnology, which was Dominic's company,
which we became the lead venture capital behind in
1985-86. We brought in someone, acted as interim
president for that company, and they've raised a
lot of money. And now they, along with Argus
Pharmaceuticals, are really the first two
private biotechnology companies in Texas who
have filed investigational new drug
applications with the Food and Drug
Administration to begin human clinical trials,
which for us in our portfolio, we break down our
portfolio of companies and that biotechnology to
us, we have a more limited definition of
biotechnology than I think most people in Texas
have. We limit it to those companies that are
involved in the fields of cell and molecular
biology. And so this is recombinant DNA,
monoclonal antibodies and that. Then we have what
we just consider our medical biomedical
technology, which are devices,
instrumentation, things like that. And then
there's health care services. In our portfolio
of, say, 17, 18 companies, we really have three
pure biotechnology companies, two that are
biotechnology-related, and then the balance are
medical device and instrumentation, excepting
one, which is a service company. There are six of
those companies, I think, that are here in the
woodlands. and all three of the pure biotech
companies. And the significance of those
companies is that we almost should scratch the
buzzword biotechnology. They're
pharmaceutical companies. Pharmaceuticals are
the bread and butter of the health care industry in
terms of that's where the big bucks are. It costs a
lot to develop them, costs a lot to get them
approved. When you sell them, you generate a lot of
revenues, and they have high profit margins. And
it's big business.
Unless you use the context of Fortune 100 as being
your definition, there aren't many small
pharmaceutical companies. You're either big, or
you're not in the business, or you're going to get
absorbed by someone. And this is exciting,
because the The biotechnology industry really
evolved on the coast in the late 70s and early 80s.
And I've always marked the 70s and early 80s as
nationally being the science generation for
biotechnology in the United States, where they
were developing these tools of cell fusion and
recombinant DNA. And then in 1986, the first
couple, I think there actually were actually four
bioengineered products approved by the Food and
Drug Administration in 86. So I kind of marked, you
know, the 86 as the beginning of the product
generation nationally in biotechnology. Here in
Texas, we really look at the 80s as being the
science generation for biotechnology here, and
it was mostly in the academic laboratories. And
the 90s where we're real excited about this year is
that, you know, in those three pure biotech
companies, Houston Biotechnology, Argus
Pharmaceuticals, and Zonagen, they were
consumed with research and development
throughout the period of time they existed in the
80s. However, 1990 and 1991, each one of those
three companies will be going into clinical
trials with us. So now, that really marks the
beginning of the product generation for
biotechnology in Texas. And in that case, and each
of those three companies is here in the Woodlands,
Houston Biotechnology has a monoclonal
antibody-based product that would prevent
secondary cataracts from forming. And that, we
estimate, is a worldwide market of at least $250 to
$300 million. Argus Pharmaceutical has not one,
but three products that we think they'll be in
clinical trials within the next two years. But the
initial product that they filed their IND with
about a month ago is a formulation of a topical
antifungal that now with our new formulation has
indications systemically as both an antifungal
and an antiviral. And because this won't be
published before all this probably evolves along
in the press. This drug has been tested at MD
Anderson at the National Cancer Institute of the
National Institute of Health in a very prominent
laboratory there and has shown the greatest
potency against the AIDS virus than any other
drug, including AZT. And the significance is that
not only does it prevent replication of the virus,
but also it has shown an ability to in vitro kill
HIV-infected cells, but not be toxic at all to
healthy cells. And at the FDA, they've just been
pushing us, literally, to get this in clinical
trials. So we're very excited about that product.
And there's still a lot of you never know. In
clinical trials, it may pan out that it's not
effective. But right now, all the indications
look very positive. Then the third company,
Zonagen, that's also out of Baylor College of
Medicine. And we're proud of that. That's kind of
our Texas product. network. We created the
company. I'm the chairman of the board of that
company. We're the lead investor, but then our
other two major investors, one is Ross Perot, and
the third is a venture fund called Triad that's
headed by Lloyd Benson III. You've got Mitchell,
Perot, and Benson, three big names in Texas,
backing that. It's one of the most elegant,
marvelous technology. It is a
immunocontraceptive vaccine that has been
funded by Dr. Bonnie Dunbar at Baylor College of
Medicine for many years by the Mellon Foundation.
She's been involved with the World Population
Council, the World Health Organization to
develop a contraceptive vaccine to prevent
pregnancy in mammals. In her case, her grants are
aimed towards a human contraceptive vaccine for
third world countries like China and India. Now,
when we, when I came across this at Baylor, I
thought, you know, geez, from the moral, ethical,
regulatory implications of human
contraception, I'm not, I don't think I'm going to
be interested. However, has anybody considered
the commercialization of this product in the
animal marketplace? And so we took it upon
ourselves to evaluate that. And what we found, we
have found out is that, uh, there's a 500 to $600
million worldwide market, uh, for female dogs and
cats to have a vaccine as opposed to having a
surgical intervention. And, uh, it's, uh, it's,
uh, the way that the product works, uh, and those,
uh, parents side effects, uh, just a marvelous
technology. So incidentally, Donna has been
writing a history of, Veterinary medicine in
Texas. Is that right? Is that right? Well, I think
that's just going to be a major, major, major
product. And we've been talking with Merck and a
number of other pharmaceutical companies.
They're really in the veterinary pharmaceutical
area. We've had, in fact, the Merck people were in
here two days in this very conference room about a
year ago. And Merck has really got some smart
people. And they... indicated to us that if you
could just conceive it on the board today, even
that which has not yet been invented or
discovered, they can conceive of only five
products that would be $100 million-plus
products in animal health. One happens to be a
product, the largest happens to be a product that
they do have. It's called ivermectin, which is – I
for almost any type of fungal about anything
that's wrong with an animal. They give it
ivermectin. It's and that's about a $600 million
product. But then they said that the second
largest product, if they existed, would either be
a contraceptive vaccine or a flea vaccine, none of
which exists today. And then the other two one they
indicated would be a heart drug, which I thought
was a little biased towards, you know, they're
Yeah, they don't have it, but what a lot of these
companies will do is they'll develop a human
product, and then if they think the animal
market's big enough, they'll adjust their
program to modify their human product to be an
animal product, and they have a human heart drug
that I think they're planning on introducing in
the animal marketplace, and there's one other one
which escapes me right now. So if this works and
field clinical trials, we hope to start – You know,
by the middle of next year, you know, that'll tell.
But our market research has indicated, you know,
an 85, 90-plus percent acceptance rate of this
product in the marketplace. And that company is
here in the woodlands. So those three, Houston
Biotechnology, Argus, Zonagen, are the three
biotech companies in the woodlands. We have two
device instrumentation companies. Excuse me,
one, LifeCell Corporation was that first one
launched out of UT, and that has probably the most
esoteric technology that we came across. They
have a process of ultra-rapid cooling followed by
molecular distillation drying, which it's a very
high-tech way of Freeze drying, right. It will
preserve biological samples, if you will. And
the, you know, the breakthrough here is that, you
know, the problem when you freeze something is
you'll either have damage due to ice crystal
formation, or what you can do to mitigate that is
you can subject the sample to a cryoprotectant.
Typical ones are DMSO, dimethyl sulfoxide, or
some other things, and they're essentially
antifreeze. And they will displace the water in
the biological specimen so that you're not
getting ice crystal formation, but of course
these are chemicals and they're very toxic, so
you're chemically altering the sample. What the
life cell process does is, again, it uses no
cryoprotectant, but it And by this ultra-rapid
cooling, the water at the molecular level will
form almost an amorphous or glass-like phase. But
then by subjecting it immediately then to this
vacuum that's the equivalent to an outer space
vacuum, it causes these glass-like water
molecules to sublimate the tissue. So what you
have in the end is something that is structurally
and chemically intact. And they were just, in
fact, mentioned a big article in the Wall Street
Journal about a month ago. They've received a
number of grants from the federal government, and
that particular one was from, I think, the Navy to
preserve red blood cells like that. Uh, and that
company, uh, we we founded that company and that
was the first out of U. T. And this year they'll do
about $1,000,000 in sales, uh, on their equipment
side of their business. The things like red blood
cells. Uh, you know, they're also working on
preserving skin, a number of other things like
that. You know, those are more like the drugs.
They're going to be longer term in their
development and application. Then the other
device company that we have here, Optex
Biomedical, had as its origin Texas A&M, although
we were not involved in the formation of that
company. There were four young scientists, three
of them who were at A&M that had developed some
optic fiber technology at A&M. And they, in fact,
had licensed it from the university and gotten
some funding from a group of doctors here in
Houston initially. a few hundred thousand
dollars. Then we came along, I guess, in about 1987
or 88, and we led a financing that included a number
of large institutional investors. And what
they're developing is what we believe will be the
world's first fiber optic-based real-time blood
gas monitoring system. And we believe that on the
device side, this is perhaps the hottest market.
In fact, when we had an annual meeting, one of our
annual meetings, I think it was two years ago, we
had it down at the medical center. And Dr. DeBakey
was kind enough to take us into his auditorium and
visit with us for about 40 minutes. And it's
interesting because Someone asked him, well, how
are we going to stop rising health care costs? And
he says, well, that's really very simple. Of
course, everybody's, how can it be simple?
Everybody's trying to figure it out. And he was
being sarcastic, partly. But he said, there's a
very simple answer to stop rising health care
costs. That is, you stop all research and
development. And he explains, he says, well, if we
don't develop any new technology, then doctors
won't find new ways to charge patients money. And
the point he was making was, he's part sarcastic,
but he was also saying that, you know, if you're a
cardiologist and you're a good cardiologist, you
could diagnose heart disease 20 years ago before
they had this or they had that. If you're a good
doctor now, basically what you're doing is if you
can show anybody how to use this equipment,
someone off the street could be able to diagnose
heart disease. And there is some, and people are
using it because of protection of liability. You
know, if you're an anesthesiologist and you don't
want to get sued because you lose someone, then
you've got to use anything that anybody is using
that would seemingly protect you and your
information, you know, they're going to use. So
there are more and more ways to charge patients. So
he was being, you know, sarcastic, but he was
partially being true, being honest too. But then
having said that, Someone asked him then, what
would be the next greatest breakthrough that you
would hope for in the clinic? And he, without
hesitating and having no idea what any of our
companies were involved with, really, he said
real-time blood gas monitoring. And so and we
estimate at bare minimum that that, you know,
medical devices, if you're addressing 50 to 100
million dollar market, that's very large. And
it's only usually these pharmaceutical products
that address these, you know, multi hundred
million dollar markets. But we estimate at and
analysts around the around the globe estimate at
least 300 million dollars and some as large as a
billion dollars for that particular
marketplace. And they are expected to launch
their product next year. It has been FDA approved,
but it has not been engineered down to its final
ergonomic design. So we expect them to launch that
next year. And that's a company, for example, that
they are projecting that within three or four
years they might have as many as 400 or 500
employees. here in the woodlands. So that's
almost Houston's medical version of compact
computer. Well, that's exciting. Yeah, yeah.
It's exciting.
What is your, and I'm not sure we're ready for this
question yet, but one thing that occurs to me so far
is that Mitchell and the woodlands provided
assistance in launching these things. And right
now, you basically are spun off and are now
separate independent venture capital company,
and that you are here is
almost coincidental or incidental to what's
happening in and around the Woodlands. The
Woodlands is complimentary and supplements what
you're doing, but right now you're doing other
things. In other words, the medical complex is
not. No, and interestingly is that, again, way
back when I was able to convince the Mitchell
organization, that we have enough
infrastructure or resource base here in Houston
and in Texas to make this successful. And the
woodlands, because I was going to use it as a tool to
help me be successful in this, and the woodlands
would benefit from it. But I convinced from, I
certainly convinced Bud Clark, George, said he
was convinced. He probably still hoped
otherwise, but everybody accepted the fact that
every company that we invest in can't be in the
Woodlands, practically speaking, unless you
can't exist on doing only a company whenever it
happens to be one that you can locate here. So
really, going back as far as probably 1986 or 87,
they had agreed basically that I think they
accepted the fact that I might know what I'm doing
and that I have made investments outside of the
woodlands. In fact, if we go back, you know, even
starting in 86, and a good year for us was where
we'll do three companies. And it has just
historically fallen that one of those will end up
in the woodlands, one of them will be Texas
non-woodlands, and one of them will be outside of
Texas.
that prescription has worked well for us and has
been accepted by them. The interesting thing, in
1988-89, we became independent of Mitchell, but
in all candor, his vision has not been lost by me.
Number one is that his vision is an accurate
vision. Number two, I'm very loyal to him. And
number three, it has been a formula that has
produced success for us. So even though our
financial base is larger now, includes more than
Mitchell, we operate exactly the way we operated
in 1986, 1987. Does he still
participate in any way or capital? He has, you
know, Mitchell, and again, I just can't tell you
how big of a fan I am of George Mitchell because...
Certainly,
going back to our Mitchell years, it was his
company, it was his money, it was his initial
vision. He could have suggested anything. And one
of the things people asked me about was, well, do
you ever get pressure from George to do this deal
and that deal, or a friend, blah, blah, blah? And it
has been perhaps because he himself is an
entrepreneur and understands the process. He has
never pushed us on doing anything. In fact, the
contrary. Whenever, quote, one of George's
alleged friends had a deal, those would be the
times that he would call me saying, well, yes, I do
or I don't know so-and-so very well. And this is
what he's going to talk to you about, but I don't
have any opinion about it. You just make your own
judgment. Always supported me to let us make our
own judgments. I spent, I remember in those early
years in particular, we'd always prepare. And
we'd do so much homework on these things. We'd be
down there. And we were also out of time. And one of
the reasons that I pushed us separating from
Mitchell was you got to go back into the 86 and 87.
Here we were. People were surely going into
Mitchell's office saying, we want to drill more
wells. Well, money's tight. We're not going to be
able to do so much this year. Surely people were
going in there saying, we want to pave new roads,
and we want to do this in the woodlands. And surely
they were getting, well, money's tight. We're
going to maybe have to defer some of those to next
year. He, even when oil was $9 a barrel, I went in
there and I asked him for money to do this deal or
that deal. 30 seconds later, I have it. He was so
incredibly supportive of this thing, even during
the worst of Mitchell's economic times. But
nonetheless, and even though he was supportive, I
personally felt that that must be very awkward for
him. The presidents of Oil and gas divisions are
probably wondering why Marty Sutter, who's
investing in these things that no one knows
anything, couldn't understand them and had no
interest in understanding, why is George giving
them money? So I told him, and I think I convinced
him, that this
is my vision. Maybe your vision was initially that
this would just support the real estate
development of the woodlands, and maybe my vision
might have been this. But what's happened is that
our visions have blended to being one and the same,
and I'm committed to this strategy, to this
operating mode, and it really doesn't matter
whether you're the only pocket to back it or I get
other pockets to back it. I'm going to do the same
old, same old. and we have in fact followed that. In
addition to his support now, we have funding from,
we're the first venture fund that the University
of Texas invested in out of its endowment. We're
the first venture fund that the Meadows
Foundation in Dallas invested in. We have the
first Boston Corporation, Minnesota Mutual Life
Insurance Company, the Delta Airlines Pension
Fund, first city bank in town. the TISO
organization in Switzerland. These people are
all investing in this vision of taking this
medical research that we have in Texas and
commercializing it and, in fact, have recognized
that the companies that Going forward, if we were
in a horse race and we wanted to bet on, I tell you,
I'd take these five or six we have here in the
woodlands over the rest of them because they're
origins from strong academic laboratories here
out of the Texas Medical Center that we have been
able from day one not to just get satisfied with
management but go out and pick who we felt were the
absolutely best people to run these companies. We
have fostered the continued growth of that
science through participating in research and
development grants at the academic institution
with the academic scientists there. And we have
been able to bring substantial, sophisticated
capital resources to these companies. How do you
relate to the Houston Advanced Research Center,
HARC, now in terms of this kind of development?
There's less a direct relationship today other
than Dr. Porter, who's the president of HARC, is
the chairman of my scientific advisory
committee. Nonetheless, as an institution, HARC
has... Really, it's still too young in its life
cycle to be a producer of technology. It has
developed an infrastructure to do so. But number
one, because initially our focus was on the life
sciences, and there is not. There wasn't much
interaction, although We have always
anticipated that, prospectively, there will be
some. And in fact, we have organized what's called
the Research Forest Technology Association,
which includes about 13 companies now, of which
Mitchell is not involved. We felt that this was
something that we needed to not have Uncle George
hand-holding us, that we needed to take the
initiative amongst ourselves. to form at our last
breakfast. And the presidents of those 13
organizations, we meet once a month and we discuss
a variety of things. And Dr. Porter did tell us at
the last meeting that he was planning on
developing a program more life sciences
oriented. So we think that either interventions
off what they're doing today, and they have, they
developed through the superconducting
supercollider, they developed a magnetic
resonance imaging magnet that may have some
commercial value, and out of their laser
applications research center, they developed an
intervention there that they think might have
some clinical value. We chose not to finance
either one of those projects, but it was, and
again, there's another example where George
isn't pushing us on anything. He's letting us make
our best judgment. In our particular case, us
three partners have some you know, some adverse
feelings towards high-cost capital equipment
ventures, and that's why we didn't participate in
the magnet. And on the laser side, we just fear that
laser technology worldwide is advancing so
rapidly that, in fact, the technology is probably
advancing more rapidly than the clinical
application. And we could be wrong, but that just
happens to be our feeling towards those two
things. So we didn't finance those, but we expect
that they will be long-term a source of
opportunities for us. Do you have any direct
involvement with the Woodlands Corporation in
your company or on the board or anything like that?
None. We are presently totally independent of
them, although, again, it's now because we've got
this— this critical mass of 13 companies. I'm the
chairman of the board of two of those companies,
and we're clearly actively involved with all of
them through the RFTA or what have you. We work, in
the case of Mike Richman, I interact a lot with Mike
because, again,
I'm going to be selfish in that I'm going to be
primarily interested in the success of these
companies. And I have felt that the woodlands is a
tool to help make them successful, the result of
which will be strong and has been strong economic
development of the woodlands. But the woodlands
corporation is, you know, real estate people may
think differently than technology
entrepreneurs. So I think, and Michael Richman
is, Not your typical real estate person. I think he
shares the vision as well. And he is someone that I
can go to who will be who I'll say, well, Michael,
uh, you know, what you need to consider is you need
to consider, uh, uh, some type of development of a
facility that can be shared by these companies for
this purpose. And. whereas maybe the average real
estate person might say, well, what revenues is it
going to produce, how much is it going to cost type
of thing. Michael is going to be more inclined to
understand the qualitative value of that in terms
of, helping these companies. It doesn't matter
how much it costs, if it helps or what the payback
is. It's not as if it's not a factor. But more
importantly, if it helps these companies be
successful, it means that they stay here and they
grow larger and produce more jobs or it helps
attract other companies there. then Michael is
usually willing to listen to those
recommendations or suggestions. And because
it's
a little bit easier for me to explain those things
to him than perhaps the single entrepreneur who's
maybe just looking out for his company's own best
interest. So we communicate a lot in that fashion.
Maybe as sort of a concluding comment or anything
you'd like to go on, fine, but would you comment,
maybe now that you've reached this critical mass
in terms of the biomedical community, what do you
expect to happen over the next decade? A lot has
happened, but not for the last decade, clearly. I
think the biggest challenge that we're going to
have, the good news is that we have some
outstanding companies. Some of these companies
are going to grow up and be, to different degrees,
success stories a la compact computer. Some of
these companies are going to grow up and be
successful but be acquired. and may or may not have
a lasting impact on the woodlands in Texas. And
some of these companies, although we're almost
more amazed and proud because we've had so few
failures, but there will be failure. If there
isn't failure, then we haven't been taking enough
risk. And we believe that we have to be risk takers
to hit home runs. And so a lot of that will evolve in
the future. And to what degree, we're still not
sure. Right now, we are immensely positive about
the success of these companies. The good news is
that we don't believe that the technology base,
i.e., the academic creation, the academic
discovery process is going to go away. I think
we're, you know, we're going to, there's going to
be challenges to continue to make sure federal
grant money goes to all our fine academic
institutions. We believe that's going to
continue to be there and hopefully grow stronger.
What we're going to get a net gain in is the fact is
the, the management base, because just as when
cardiovascular amnion cardiovascular systems
amnion was sold, That was, for the Woodlands, that
was not so good because, you know, they then were
not a permanent resident of the Woodlands. But
what it meant was the president of that company
became my partner and is now working with me. The
number two person at that company we hired to be the
number one person at Optecstar. biomedical
sensor company. So now we've got now a potential
for a recycling resource base of intellectual
talent, and that's very exciting for us. The big
challenge going into the future is going to
continue to be capital. Texas, in my opinion, will
never be rich in venture capital. Uh, and that's a,
you know, that's a long story itself, but just as,
you know, there's, there's risk capital and
there's risk takers here, but it's so much of it
will always be tied into the land, oil, real
estate, cattle ranching that. When it's going to
be available is when those industries are doing
well. When those industries are doing well,
they're going to be recycled right back into it.
Same is true with space industries, too. Exactly.
So I really don't see that there's ever going to be a
surplus or a wealth of venture capital for the high
technology area in Texas. The ability of
companies like ourselves and maybe a few others to
fund these ventures is still a challenge that we
have to look forward to. However, success breeds
success. We were successful despite the fact that
we were initially a corporate-sponsored venture
fund, which many people look upon negatively. We
were able to go out in a very difficult market and
raise $22 million to you know, continue our
efforts. And we believe the success of these
companies, of which some of our most promising
ones are here in the woodlands, will fuel our
ability to raise additional capital and just keep
this process growing and growing.
Interestingly, my little personal insight is
that we see no reason that we will ever diminish the
importance of the medical biomedical technology
as a part of our programs. Nonetheless, we believe
that as opportunists that there are going to be
other things here in Texas that are going to be
attractive to us. And often it comes from a
marrying of technologies. As an example,
agriculture and biotechnology, waste
management, environmental technology as it
relates to both chemistry and biology. is going
to, there's going to be advances made there. And we
think that, you know, that number one, Texas has an
attractive infrastructure to capitalize on that
if there are, you know, people like ourselves that
are out looking for it. And then within our
particular community here, we believe that, you
know, as HARC continues to grow, as we have
successful companies here that attract
intellectually
brilliant people that have new ideas.